
= HttpSession

A useful yet still extremely light-weight web client built on top of Ruby <tt>Net::HTTP</tt>.  Keeps certain information internally in a session for each host/port used.  Great for simple web page scraping or web service API usage.

== Dependencies

* just Ruby 1.8.6 - 1.9.2
* no gem dependencies!

== Features

* Extremely light-weight at just 100-200 lines of code
* Supports GET and POST requests, including POST parameter data
* Supports SSL connections in a natural way, and performs certificate verification using the same CA bundle as Mozilla
* Automatically uses KeepAlives if the server supports them
* Automatically remembers Cookies for each session (though currently ignores host/path/expires/secure options)
* Automatically follows Redirects, up to a certain limit
* Automatically retries again if certain possibly transient errors happen, up to a limit.  Useful, for example, when the KeepAlive limit is reached and the server hangs up on you, it just retries and keeps going without missing a beat.
* Supports additional headers for whatever simple additional HTTP features you may need.

== Usage

Normal example usage, parses url string to determine its behavior:
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.get_request_url(url_string)</tt>
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.get_request_url(url_string, headers_hash)</tt>
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.post_request_url(url_string, post_params_hash)</tt>
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.post_request_url(url_string, post_params_hash, headers_hash)</tt>

Lower level examples, if your url is already broken down into pieces:
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.use(host_string).request</tt> # defaults are: <tt>false, 80</tt>, and <tt>'/', {}, :get, {}</tt>
* <tt>response_object = HttpSession.use(host_string, use_ssl_boolean, port_integer).request(uri_string, headers_hash, get_or_post_symbol, post_params_hash)</tt>

All the above return:
* a <tt>Net::HTTPResponse</tt> object in all its glory

Or raise any of the following:
* <tt>Timeout::Error</tt> or <tt>SystemCallError</tt> subclass - for connection-related DNS, TCP/IP, etc issues
* <tt>Net::ProtocolError</tt> subclass - for HTTP response errors

Notes:
* You do not need to check the response object for HTTP errors like <tt>404 "Not Found"</tt> or others, they are raised automatically, and can be caught when needed.  In my opinion this is better than how <tt>Net::HTTP</tt> behaves.
* A common pattern is to feed the <tt>response_object.body</tt> string into Nokogiri[http://nokogiri.org/] for further processing.

== Contributing

If you think you found a bug or want a feature, get involved at http://github.com/dburry/http_session/issues  If you'd then like to contribute a patch, use Github's wonderful fork and pull request features.  Keep in mind that one of the main goals of this library is to remain light-weight, so changes done in this spirit are most likely to be included.

To set up a full development environment:
* <tt>git clone</tt> the repository,
* have RVM[https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/] and Bundler[http://gembundler.com/] installed,
* then cd into your repo (follow any RVM prompts if this is your first time using that),
* and run <tt>bundle install</tt> to pull in all the rest of the development dependencies.
* After that point, <tt>rake -T</tt> should be fairly self-explanatory.
* Check out the <tt>rake -T rubies</tt> tasks for some neat multi-ruby-version setup and testing.

Note: If <tt>rake -T</tt> doesn't show much, then you are probably missing some of the requirements.  Perhaps you did not install RVM, or run <tt>bundle install</tt> correctly, or you do not have the right Ruby version or gemset installed/selected with RVM.  You can either correct this the normal way, or (if you have RVM) run the <tt>rake rubies:setup</tt> task, which makes sure several different versions of Ruby are intalled and sets up a nicely configured gemset in each for you.  You can then use RVM to switch between them for manually testing or running anything you want in any version (although the <tt>.rvmrc</tt> chooses Ruby 1.9.2 for you currently).

== Alternatives

Light-weight libraries are great resource savers when you only need limited features.  But they're not for every situation.  Here are some other great alternatives:

* Mechanize[http://mechanize.rubyforge.org/] - Much more fully-featured web page scraping library.

== License

This library is distributed under the MIT license. Please see the LICENSE file.
